Dowload expect.pm from ubuntu and install using dpkg packahe manager
1. Expect

* a program to control interactive applications
o it maybe possible to control interactive applications from other scripting languages as well
+ python, perl
* expect programming is very easy compared to perl!
o crackers use expect to try and gain access to machines via ssh, ftp, telnet
+ ask AJC Blyth

2. Expect example uses

* as system administrators we may have need for automating interactive activities
o testing remote access works (telnet, ftp)
o down loading ftp files
o changing password
o running security checks
* we could build a script which test that our server is safe
o from guest accounts
o no telnet access is allowed
o no ssh from lab machines is allowed
+ but ssh from privileged machines is working

3. Expect and examples

* automatically creating passwords
o can be done via C
+ takes a lot of time to write such programs
+ will it work with NIS, shadow passwords or Kerboros?
* with expect we run the user program passwd and send keyboard input

4. Password Trial

* advice first run the program that you want to connect to expect by hand
o note the output and build expect around it
o so let us change a password for bob
*

passwd bob
Enter new UNIX password:
Retype new UNIX password:
passwd: password updated successfully

o passwords were entered, but obviously the passwd program did not echo back our input!

5. Trial results

* we note that the program prompted us for a password twice
o both times it ended its sentence with password:
o as we are lazy we can wait until we see password: and ignore anything that was before
+ why is this good practice?
+ what must we watch out for?
*

#!/usr/bin/expect

spawn passwd [lindex $argv 0]
set password [lindex $argv 1]
expect "password:"
send "$passwordr"
expect "password:"
send "$passwordr"
expect eof

6. Testing the example

*

./exp1.exp bob 123
spawn passwd bob
Enter new UNIX password:
Retype new UNIX password:
passwd: password updated successfully

* here we change user bob password to 123

7. Script explanation

*

#!/usr/bin/expect

spawn passwd [lindex $argv 0]
set password [lindex $argv 1]
expect "password:"
send "$passwordr"
expect "password:"
send "$passwordr"
expect eof

* #!/usr/bin/expect script is interpreted via expect located in directory /usr/bin
* spawn passwd [lindex $argv 0]
o run the program passwd bob and connect expect to this program
o note that [lindex $argv 0] resolves to bob
+ actually argument one (hmm..)

8. Script explanation

* set password [lindex $argv 1]
o defines a variable password and sets it to 123
* expect "password:"
o waits for the program passwd to issue password: before continuing
* send "$passwordr"
o sends the users password to passwd followed by a carriage return
* note the script repeats the last two commands, why?
* finally expect eof wait for passwd to finish

9. Anchoring

* you might want to match text at the beginning or end of a line, this is via
o ^ for the beginning of a line
o $ for the end of a line
* also note that * means any number of characters

10. Pattern action pairs

*

#!/usr/bin/expect

set timeout 15

expect "hi" { send "You said hin" }
"hello" { send "Hello to youn" }
"bye" { send "Goodbyen" }
timeout { send "I’m fed upnbyen" }

* if we run the script as shown below and type nothing we get:
*

I’m fed up
bye

* note that different actions can be associated with different input
o note also that the default timeout time is set at 10 seconds to disable the timeout facility
o set timeout -1

11. Autoftp and expect

* so far we have built the front end to autoftp
o scans the input file for URLs
o handles arguments
* we will use expect to control ftp, we will build this up this utility
* firstly we will ftp manually

12. Ftp session

*

fred@merlin:$ ftp guenevere
Connected to guenevere.
220 guenevere FTP server (Version wu-2.6.0(1))
Name (guenevere:fred): anonymous
331 Guest login ok, send your complete e-mail
331 address as password.
Password:nobody@nowhere.com

230-Welcome, archive user anonymous@merlin !
230-
230-The local time is: Mon Feb 12 15:18:14 2001
230-
230 Guest login ok, access restrictions apply.
Remote system type is UNIX.
Using binary mode to transfer files.

*

ftp> dir
200 PORT command successful.
150 Opening ASCII mode data connection for /bin/ls.
total 20
d--x--x--x 2 0 0 4096 Aug 10 2000 bin
d--x--x--x 2 0 0 4096 Aug 10 2000 etc
d--x--x--x 2 0 0 4096 Aug 10 2000 lib
dr-xr-xr-x 4 0 0 4096 Sep 28 22:17 pub
-rw-r--r-- 1 0 0 346 Aug 10 2000 welcome.msg
226 Transfer complete.
ftp> quit
221-You have transferred 0 bytes in 0 files.
221-Total traffic for this session was 1182
221-bytes in 1 transfers.
221-Thank you for using the FTP service on
221-guenevere. Goodbye.

13. Simple semi automated ftp script

* this script will log us into a site and then interact with the user
*

#!/usr/bin/expect

set site [lindex $argv 0]
spawn ftp $site
expect "Name"
send "anonymousr"
expect "Password:"
send "nobody@nowhere.comr"
interact

* note the interact statement
o connects the keyboard to the ftp program
* most ftp servers do not check for a valid email address!

14. Expect control constructs

* expect uses extends the Tcl language
* expect provides: if then else, while, set, interact, expect, for, switch, incr, return, proc
*

if {$count < 0} {
set total 1
}

*

if {$count < 5} {
puts "count is less than five"
} else {
puts "count is not less than five"
}

* you must place the statement begin brace on the same line as the if or else
o if in doubt follow the templates in these notes

15. More complex if

*

if {$count 0 {
puts "count is greater than zero"
} else {
puts "count is equal to zero"
}

16. While statement

*

#!/usr/bin/expect

set count 10
while {$count > 0} {
puts "the value of count is $count"
set count [expr $count-1]
}

* note the effect of the braces in {$count > 0}
o they defer evaluation of $count
o if you remove the braces then $count > 0 is internally replaced via: 10 > 0

17. for command

* has the syntax

for start expression next {

}
*

#!/usr/bin/expect

for {set count 10} {$count > 0} {incr count -1} {
puts "the value of count is $count"
}

18. Expressions

* 0 is false, 1 is true
* boolean operators || (or), && (and), ! (not)
* comparison operators <=, ==, != etc
* the brackets [ ] give this expression a higher precedence
* so in the example
*

set count [expr $count-1]

* the [expr $count-1] is evaluated before the set!

19. proc and return

*

#!/usr/bin/expect

proc mycompare {a b} {
if {$a $b} {
puts "$a is greater than $b"
return 1
} else {
puts "$a is equal to $b"
return 0
}
}

set value [mycompare 1 4]
puts "comparison returned $value"

*

./exp6.exp
1 is less than 4
comparison returned -1

20. Autoftp Tutorial

*

#!/usr/bin/expect
# this program is called exp7.exp
proc connect {} {
expect {
"Name*:" {
send "anonymousr"
expect {
"Password:" {
send "nobody@nowhere.comr"
expect "login ok*ftp>"
return 0
}
}
}
}
# timed out
return 1
}

*

set site [lindex $argv 0]
spawn ftp $site
while {[connect]} {
send "quitr"
expect eof
spawn ftp $site
}
send "binaryr"
send "cd [lindex $argv 1]r"
send "get [lindex $argv 2]r"
send "quitr"
expect eof

21. Laboratory session

* work on your assignment
* try out the following expect example
o you will need to add your password at the position yourpassword
*

#!/usr/bin/expect

log_user 0
spawn pwd
expect -re "(^.*/.*)$"
set localdir $expect_out(1,string)
expect eof

log_user 0
spawn ssh moppsy.comp.glam.ac.uk
expect "assword: "
send "yourpasswordr"
expect "$"
send "cd $localdir"
interact
